#summary Minutes

= Client meeting =
Date: 12/7/10
<br>Location: Raj's office
<br>Present: Oscar, Stephen, Cameron, Hamish and Greg
<br>Time: 4pm
<br>Duration: 1 hour

== The Review ==
  * Greg will look into setting up Skype for the review
  * It will be 7am in Dredsen so Raj won't be using Skype to participate in the review

== RW05 - elevator model ==
  * We will combine the 2 models we have now into one as it should be
  * States can have regions and regions can have states, which is how the multiple state machine works
  * Rules should be abstract enough on work on states in regions in states in regions etc.
  * We may have to cut corners, eg. limit embedded states to 2, to do this this year, but we must justify the decision

== TE00 ==
  * We will no longer use state machines to imitate the method behaviour; we will add actual methods to GRAF
  * We need to look in more detail into how objects calling each others' methods work.

== RCA01/AR02 - invoicer model ==
  * We will modify GRAF to use Mealy notation like in this model.
  * We will look for if statement details in the UML definition. So will Greg.

== Faithfulness to the UML defintion ==
  * GRAF should be faithful to the UML definition.
  * But there's multiple ways to implement the details of GRAF where the definition doesn't give enough information.
  * As long as "Whatever way we do it has the same result"
  * The group shall create a document listing all the times where we have had to deviate from the UML definition due to lack of information.
    * Eg. the use of executable edges to indicate which actions aren't done