_Author: Cameron Chisholm_

Last year (2009) the microwave model was used to demonstrate the progress the team had made. It was created by manually editing an XML tree. This is a time consuming process. As GRAF will hopefully be demonstrating multiple models this year a semi(or ideally wholly) automated process to produce models in XMI is required.

The ideal tool will output the XMI in a format that GRAF will recognise - requires xmlns:uml="http://www.eclipse.org/uml2/3.0.0/UML" or xmlns:uml="http://www.eclipse.org/uml2/2.1.1/UML". 

The tools investigated are:

=== Free ===
BOUML
  * Less user friendly than other tools
  * Allows for Eclipse specific output format but State Diagrams don't correctly nest with Classes creating an error when GRAF tries to load the .uml file
  * Unable to input action language
  * *Action:* Test if it makes state diagrams properly (unlike Topcased), otherwise abandon
ARGOUML
  * XMI files that are output are not specific to Eclipse
  * *Action:* Possibly investigate what _can_ be done with output
Visual Paradigm SDE Community Edition
  * Lacks the XMI output required to feed models into GRAF
  * Is available as an Eclipse plugin that allows the editing of UML models graphically
  * Unable to input action language
  * *Action:* Use for state and class diagrams until we have something better
Topcased
  * Allows for output in Eclipse specific format
  * No visual component - can use with Visual Paradigm to provide this functionality
  * Unable to input action language
  * Doesn't write state machines the same way GRAF reads them
  * *Action:* Use for state and class diagrams until we have something better
Vide
  * http://www.vide-ist.eu/index.html
  * Vide _definitely_ provides a tool to generate UML actions in the eclipse tree from given code.
  * Vide is an eclipse plugin, but it's exceedingly difficult to set up.
  * Install instructions: http://www.vide-ist.eu/reflib/cookbook.html
  * Vide isn't just an eclipse plugin. There's also various Vide articles that describe how UML actions work and many other things. 
  * *Action:* Try to set up

=== Paid ===
Enterprise Architect
  * Requires an Eclipse plugin as standard edition outputs XMI files that are not specific to Eclipse (unsure if this plugin would even allow this)
  * Doesnt correctly nest state machines in classes
  * *Action:* Abandon because of cost

Visual Paradigm SDE
  * Modellers edition outputs XMI files
  * *Action:* Abandon because of cost

Omondo UML
  * *Action:* ???

== Conclusion ==

A combination of Visual Paradigm SDE Community Edition Eclipse plugin and Topcased allows for the creation of UML models and their associated State Diagrams in a format allows GRAF to display the classes and their associated attributes. Unfortunately, no solution that allows for action language to be entered directly into the State Diagrams was found.

An issue where the classes could not properly transition between states was found. It may be due to the following:

GRAF EXAMPLE
{{{
        <transition xmi:id="_53xiIEZ1Ed6JvpGL0b827A" name="foodInitialTrans" target="_1pduoEZ1Ed6JvpGL0b827A" source="_y2hF4EZ1Ed6JvpGL0b827A"/>
        <transition xmi:id="_6sC3sEZ1Ed6JvpGL0b827A" name="foodFinalTrans" target="_zr7D4EZ1Ed6JvpGL0b827A" source="_2Tdt4EZ1Ed6JvpGL0b827A"/>
        <transition xmi:id="_8zAkMEZ1Ed6JvpGL0b827A" name="cookedTrans" target="_2Tdt4EZ1Ed6JvpGL0b827A" source="_1pduoEZ1Ed6JvpGL0b827A">
          <trigger xmi:id="_V2wVgEZ2Ed6JvpGL0b827A" name="cookedTrigger" event="_41b3MEZ8Ed6JvpGL0b827A"/>
}}}
TOPCASED PRODUCED
{{{
          <transition xmi:id="_BU22ZkbdEd-zkJFJMvy8JA" name="" kind="local" source="__YB9U0bcEd-zkJFJMvy8JA" target="__4dw4EbcEd-zkJFJMvy8JA"/>
          <transition xmi:id="_CFpaJUbdEd-zkJFJMvy8JA" name="cook" kind="local" source="__4dw4EbcEd-zkJFJMvy8JA" target="_AeP-gEbdEd-zkJFJMvy8JA"/>
          <transition xmi:id="_C_OthUbdEd-zkJFJMvy8JA" name="" kind="local" source="_AeP-gEbdEd-zkJFJMvy8JA" target="__uWLkkbcEd-zkJFJMvy8JA"/>

}}}
 